# CS4200 AStar

This Java rpgoram is designed to solve the 8-puzzle problem using the A* search
algorithm and 2 heuristic functions. The program can be run in two modes:
single-run and multi-run.

# How To Run
Simply compile and run the Java program. You will be prompted with choices to
guide the rest of the program's execution.

The program will ask you if you would like to execute a single run (with random
or manually inputted data) or if you would like to execute multiple runs with
data retrieved from a text file.

# Single-Run
Follow the instructions on screen to select the input method and the heuristic
function to use.

Random will randomly create a puzzle (you will still be prompted to enter
a heuristic function to use)
Input will prompt you to enter a permutation of the numbers 0-8 to serve as the
puzzle to solve.

H1 is the heuristic function that counts the number of misplaced tiles.
H2 is the heuristic function that counts the manhattan distance of the puzzle.

# Mutli-Run
Given a filepath, we read its data and calculate joint statistics for all the
inputs found.

# Input Format
  
// Comments are ignored  
(empty lines are ignored)  
(A permutation from 0-9) (1 or 2)  

EX:  
// 4  
125348670 1  
  
// 10  
142608753 2  
  
// 20  
258603174 2  

The permutation will serve as the puzzle to solve and the single digit will
determine which heuristic to use

The program will maintain a running sum of the costs and durations for each
respective depth, and store them in a map. This map will be condensed (averaged)
and its results will be displayed.

# Data and Source Code
The data generated by the provided masterInput.txt can be found here
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PdQg_2gdWwDnFjiEQ3u6IwrbKJ3GHJhhi4AkIvjiDlo/edit?usp=sharing

The source code for the project can be found on GitHub here
https://github.com/iHeroGH/CS4200-AStar
